# CroPlotR 1.0.0 (2026-01-23)

## NEW FEATURES

- New plotting capabilities:
  - Residuals can now be used as reference variables on the X-axis of scatter plots.
  - Simulated variables can now be plotted against various reference variables.
- Scatter plots are now displayed in a square format with identical boundaries on both axes.
- New combinations of plotting options are now supported, allowing more flexible and customizable graphics.

## BUG FIXES

- Support for **ggplot2 >= 4.0.0**.
- Minor bug fixes and stability improvements resulting from the major refactoring of the code base.

## DOCUMENTATION & TESTS

- Documentation has been significantly improved and expanded.
- Many new unit tests have been added to improve robustness and reliability.

## INTERNAL CHANGES

- Major refactoring of the internal code base to improve clarity, maintainability, and long-term evolution.
- Reduced dependencies on external packages, simplifying installation and maintenance.


# CroPlotR v0.11.0 (2025-31-10)

## NEW FEATURES

* Improved package startup message: now includes automatic citation information.
* Added a user warning about temporary incompatibility with ggplot2 ≥ 4.0.0.
* Scatter plots now support the reference_var argument for simulated variables.
* Error bars in scatter plots are now drawn using the same colors as their associated points.

## BUG FIXES

* Fixed several issues in scatter plots:

  * Corrected rendering for the "crop mixture - all_situations" case with shape = "symbol" and shape = "group".
  * Ensured identical x and y scales for sim/obs scatter plots.
  * Increased max.overlaps to avoid text overlap warnings when using symbol = "txt".

* Fixed computation of residuals when using reference variables.
* Removed non-ASCII characters from the startup message to ensure CRAN portability.
* Cleaned up unused package dependencies in DESCRIPTION.

## DOCUMENTATION & TESTS

* Improved documentation for plotting and data formatting functions.
* Strengthened test coverage, particularly for dynamic and scatter plots.
* Clarified several error and warning messages for easier debugging.

## INTERNAL CHANGES

* Dropped unnecessary dependencies (crayon, rstudioapi, stringr).
* Increased the minimal R version requirement to 4.2.0 (previously 4.1.0) to ensure compatibility with Hmisc (ggplot2).
* Continuous integration (CI) improvements:

  * Temporarily force installation of ggplot2 3.5.2 to avoid test failures.
  * Adjusted R versions and OS settings in GitHub Actions (Windows/Linux).

* General code styling and minor cleanup across functions and tests.

# CroPlotR 0.10.0

## Minor improvements and bug fixes

* Character vectors in simulated results no more mess up dynamic graphs
* Filtered zeros in obs/sim vectors when they are used as denominator in stat. criteria (=> MAPE and RME no more take Inf values)
* An error is now detected when plots of unknown variables are requested
* Added tests to automatically compare generated graphs with reference ones
* Fixed a few other bugs (missing regression line for scatter plots in some cases, number of labels for shape_sit="txt", ...)

## Misc.

* Changed license to LGPL

# CroPlotR 0.9.0

## New features

* Added the possibility to plot residuals of variables in function of residuals of other variables

## Minor improvements and bug fixes

* Fixed warnings generated by last version of ggplot2 due to existing fields provided in aes but that are not actually used (#10).

* Fixed a bug in plot that occurred when trying to plot several versions of simulated results and without intercrop situations.

* Fixed cff file generation using github action. Now generated on each commit that modifies the Description file + on release.

* Minor changes to clean the code following CRAN checks procedure application.

# CroPlotR 0.8.0

For users: 

* Update functions names to be homogeneous across SticsRPacks
* Add a method for `[` for cropr_simulation, *i.e.* we can now index the output of plots using `[`
* Deprecate `bind_rows_sim` for `bind_rows`
* Fix issue in scatter plot with `all_situations = FALSE` to get the situation name as hover in plotly
* More documentation
* Compatibility with R >= 4.0.0 + making sure it still works with 3.6.0 <= R < 4.0.0
* Fix issue in `format_cropr`
* Fix issue where points and lines were drawn twice
* Fix issue where points were not colored properly
* Fix issue when overlapping (not grouped properly)
* Fix issue where lines were not colored properly
* Fix issue for plots with residuals + custom x variable
* Fix issue with several versions but only one has common values btw obs and sim

Internals:

* Add golden tests (using `{vdiffr}`)
* Remove SticsRPacks dependency for tests
* Using third edition of testthat
* Format the code using `{styler}` and `{goodpractice}`
* Simplify **a lot** `cat_situations` and make it faaaast
* Use the `.id` in `bind_rows` if provided
* Improved computation of `LCS` to remove a warning 

# CroPlotR 0.7.2

* Added labels so that situation names appear in ggplotly graphs
* Fixed bug with successive argument:

  * did not work with several lists of situations,
  * did not work with observations of only a subset of the situations.
  
* Fixed save_plot_pdf function

# CroPlotR 0.7.1

* Updated README wrt changes in SticsRFiles package
* Fixed position of situation label when using shape_sit = "txt" in scatter plots.

# CroPlotR 0.7.0

* Add `bind_rows_sim` and `split_df2sim` helper functions to either bind a list of simulations into a single `data.frame` or to split it back. Works also on observations.
* `summary` can now be grouped by crops. Useful for cases where we have different usms with different crops, and for intercropping.
* Rename plot saving functions: plot_save -> save_plot_png & save_plot -> save_plot_pdf
* Fix a bug in the legend when plotting two versions in sole crop without observations (only one legend instead of two). See #8039.
* Graphs of residues are no longer plotted with square axes 
* Fix an issue on `extract_plot` for residues plots
* Update documentation
* Several little fixes: added quotes on situation to remove a warning, 

# CroPlotR 0.6.0

 * All crop models wrapped with [CroptimizR](https://github.com/SticsRPacks/CroptimizR) can now automatically use CroPlotR.
  
  For that, the `sim_list` element of the variable returned by the wrapper must have the attribute `cropr_simulation`, please refer to the [guidelines for implementing a crop model R wrapper for CroptimizR](https://sticsrpacks.github.io/CroptimizR/articles/Designing_a_model_wrapper.html) for more details.
 
 * some bugs fixed (coloring for model comparison and overlapping variables, absence of Plant columns in obs and/or sim, ...)

 * license changed to CeCILL-C

# CroPlotR 0.5.0

 * First release version, with dynamic plots, scatter plots, statistics.

# CroPlotR 0.1.0.9000

* Added a `NEWS.md` file to track changes to the package.
